---
status: needs-review
title: S3
---

The S3 object allows access to data stored in Amazon Web Services S3 buckets. In order to use S3, an instance of the S3 object needs to be new'ed up, and its properties such as `bucket`, `accessKeyID` and `secretAccessKey` need to be set.

## Methods

### listFiles()

```javascript
function listFiles(dolder, suffix: String, recurse: Boolean := true): array of String
```

Returns a list of all files matching the optional prefix (folder) and suffix.

By default, this includes the entire file hierarchy. If `false` is passed for the last parameter, the list is limited to files on the first level, and the first folder prefixes of any files that are nested deeper.

The list contains the full keys to the files in question.

### downloadFile()

```javascript
function downloadFile(key, localTarget: String)
```

Downloads the file with the specified key to the local disk. If `localTarget` ends on a path separator, the filename it is treated as folder name, and the filename will be derived from the key. If it does not, `localTarget` will be the destination file.

### downloadFiles()

```javascript
function downloadFiles(prefix, localTargetDir: String; recurse: Boolean)
```

Downloads all files with a given prefix/folder into a local directory.

### readFile()

```javascript
function readFile(key: String): String
```

Downloads the content of the giben key and returns it as string value.

### uploadFile()

```javascript
function uploadFile(localFile, key: String)
```

Uploads the specified file to S3 under the given key.

### uploadFiles()

```javascript
function uploadFiles(localFolderAndFilters, prefix: String; recurse: Boolean)
```

Uploads all files in `localFolderAndFilters` to S3, under the given key prefix. f the last path component of `localFolderAndFilters` contains `*` or `?` it is assumed to be a file pattern, and only files matching it will be uploaded. If not, it is assumed to be part of the path.

### writeFile()

```javascript
function writeFile(value, key: String)
```

Uploads the passed string as new file to S3 under the given key.

## Properties

* ```bucket: string``` **(required)**
* ```accessKeyID: string``` **(required)**
* ```secretAccessKey: string``` **(required)**
* ```regionEndpoint: string``` _(optional)_
* ```serviceURL: string``` _(optional)_
